we got okay do you have enough raw
sugars overnight I mean listen this is
this was look at all that shit's not
it's not what it's not what it looks
like it's not an issue it's not an issue
it's I you never know
I've gotten before where they give them
to me they don't put any fucking sugar
in him or the raw sugar running through
his veins right now I'm I'm almost done
with this one and I'll finish that one
name I mean I gotta be up four o'clock
in the morning I ran five and a half
miles I'm fucking I'm dead bro I'm
working all day long I Drive all the way
over here it's like 40 bucks worth of
gas
I Drive an associate vehicle yeah I'd
put more oil in my car the other day I'm
putting a quart of oil a month in that
thing anyways what are we gonna do today
so we had the great idea actually you
know what I'm gonna give this kid if you
know you got a grade this is a great
idea actually my idea no I'm gonna admit
that this wasn't my idea huge shout out
to this dude on Instagram
Jack McHugh all right dude DM me and
said hey Danny was watching the channel
had an idea for content with Matt Cox he
thought about doing commentary while you
guys watch his American greed episode
would be great content great fucking
idea we are two days later we're doing
it all right I'm in the middle of doing
a podcast let me call you back period
also I'm looking for the second porn
stars name period it's such a big shot
now he just attacked you talked to text
in the middle of the podcast it's a it's
a it in flow no you just got flown to
Houston to do a podcast for value
tainment how did that go I think I
should clarify that statement that
sounds true I'm working on a story it's
a porn star Chaz porn star in the story
okay that's what's a tax yes that was
technically the writer guy that I work
with so cool so yeah okay so oh oh you
trip to Houston you did a huge podcast
out there it was good it was good it was
with Patrick that David he does a value
tainment
and he contacted me because of because
somebody on his staff when the producer
saw this and he brought it up and said
you got to see this and he told him
about you know my story he said oh I got
a
see that guy and he they flew me out
there and I did the did it and it was
good the problem with it was the guy has
he actually interviews you unlike unlike
unlike concrete so he actually has like
a format where he starts asking
questions and instead of just let me
tell the story
I end up kind of being interviewed and
being thrown questions that I have no
it's that you never get a rhythm like
I'm used to telling the story I've been
telling still fucking story for ten
years so I'm used to just telling the
story I sit down and they go so what
happened bro and I go okay here's what
happened
boom boom boom boom boom so I have the
whole thing laid out what's hard when
somebody says so when you get the
mortgage industry okay
what are your parents like okay well
what happened you're like fuck I'm all
over the place I'm like I got no rhythm
here so I don't feel like I don't feel
like I should out of that I don't feel
like I did a good job they edit the shit
out of it they produce the fuck out of
that thing they add all kinds of music
they do it rule they do a good job yeah
I mean he's got a fucking huge stat like
when I walked in you know it's not it's
not Danny in the back room with a
buddy's place and he'll know it's a
fucking production bro he's got fucking
cameras he's got camera got two camera
guys got a producer he's got fucking
assistants he's got there's like five
guys in the room you're dealing with big
shots now so okay so what I do today
what I did get to talk about on the
podcast what did you just talk about
tell me I got to talk about real estate
kind of it's my story this is my story
this is your personal story yeah this is
what really happened this is the real
fucking holy shit based on even when I
research this when I was writing it
because I didn't know everything I'm
getting I'm getting FBI 302 forms in I'm
getting the fucking mo AI forms from the
Secret Service like there's all kinds of
shit I didn't know that we're happening
behind the scenes that is the final
cover like this but in color well that's
the that's a proof this is that well I'm
actually thinking about I was gonna do
another fucking red text with like the
blue water in the background there's
like jaws I was gonna do what another
one the blue with a bunch of sharks and
have me on the front cover because only
you know I you typically I wasn't
do that but I've thought about it I
thought all my other books have the
actual subject on the cover so this one
I thought well maybe I should be on that
somebody said you should be on the cover
yeah so me on the cover with a bunch of
sharks and whatever so but yeah that's
the book man it's like like it it's it's
yeah it's it's good stuff man it's just
it's people are gonna love this one
because everyone loves your story I
think the most listened to everybody you
know here's what the thing is everybody
on the in the comments are like oh you
know I'm so glad you're turning a new
leaf and you're staying out of trouble
and you're doing the right thing by a
fucking book if you want to help me you
know
oh I've even had people man I wish I
could contribute well you can I have a
patreon account actually yeah when I
created Matt a fucking page yeah account
you should go donate money to it so by
his shown Amazon so um this is uh so I
have a book I have a book by the fucking
book problem oh yeah you got more than
one you got plenty man Sam is odd it's
great they'll be at your house in like
three days so that's a book and this is
what actually happened bro and I'm even
hard on myself in it I mean I I say
exactly just what happened this is what
happened this is how it happened the
whole thing unlike American greed which
we are about to watch wings for the
introduction it's about 90 percent
tracks nine maybe 95 it's it's a little
skewed here and there but yeah you know
it's pretty accurate but there's you
were and you were locked up the first
time you saw this right no you came out
they came to me this is part of the
reason I got a reduction was just to do
the interview with American greed they
came to me sent me a letter sent my
loriel at her since the US Attorney
letter said we're doing this story we'd
like to talk to Cox I called my lawyer
my lawyer said I got the letter I'm the
US Attorney's already called me they
want you to do an interview so they set
up an interview a phone interview
because you can't get you cannot get
cameras into federal prison any time you
see people will say oh no I've seen
pictures of guys on camera in prison
yeah those are state prisons they're not
federal so you can't get a camera in so
I did a phone interview and they use
bits and pieces of the phone interview
okay they interview Allison Arnold which
is one of my what
um co-defendants they interview who else
they interview the US attorney they
interview the Secret Service agent they
do not interview Candace called Iran
which is the FBI agent they the lady who
called you in you yeah yeah um that's
that would have been good yeah that
would mean you would've seen her - she's
like told me she's like five ten fake
breasts good-looking intimidating his
fuck mean like just fucking angry bro
it's like there's no reason to be that
angry just even I mean literally there
was literally when she was interviewing
me there was a a don't lie to us moment
I was like the fuck she's like it was
like it was like something out of like
over like a real cop show or so I was
like what are you talking about yeah
she's she's got issues
Wow got anger management issues she
still around she's still in the agency
she's got it she has to have retired by
now yeah but where were you the first
time you saw this episode I was uh I was
in the halfway house and tree on cult uh
tree on call two had hired me to work
there and so I he and this buddy of his
Mike so he and Mike I walk in I'm like
hey what's up we know what you guys I
come in and he's like yeah he's like we
got something for you I go what's that
and he he pulls out the episode and it's
I'm like no he's like yeah bro got Hulu
yeah so they put it up and we watched
the whole thing it was funny like you
said the commentary literally the whole
time we're watching it like on his phone
he would go everyone something would
happen he'd stop it and go is that what
really happened I'd be like yes what
happened
he played and he'd go is that what
happened I go now that what had kind of
in that I explained it so that was my
first so I've already done this really
once all right let's do this let's roll
this thing da-da-da-da-da
here we go the premiere of the what's
the title of this American greed episode
is there like a title or the Bonnie and
Clyde of mortgage fraud the Bonnie and
Clyde of mortgage fraud here we go
ladies and gentlemen
[Music]
are you didn't put it up in this episode
of American greed he had millions and
millions and millions and millions and
more millions that Cox and Rebecca fall
man says I got to get out of here I
gotta leave you know you want to come
the body implies the mortgage fraud this
plan was to get as much as he can look
at you
look at that hairline I know that's mm
rough
you look Hispanic what's the hand
English on your awesome dude
that's that's Allison at that point I
really did I thought they'll never catch
me
[Music]
this is kind of what your value tainment
podcast is gonna look like yeah
[Music]
in Tampa Florida a young man named Matt
Cox is making a killing in real estate
he has fast cars lots of cash there's
always a pretty woman at his side part
of his character was like this mystery
man like this mysterious like who is he
[Music]
Allyson Arnold is new to ten so who is
Allyson Arnold again um
Allyson Arnold was a mortgage broker
that was working for another mortgage
company and she and the guy the guy that
owned the mortgage company it you know
his name is Eddie Stralis Eddie owned a
mortgage company called Tampa Heights
mortgage and she was working there well
Eddie called me up one day he's like
look she's got this fuck she's a
mortgage broker she's got this loan we
can't get it closed I don't know what to
do can you talk to her so I go in I look
at the thing and I remember the the
comparable sales were too far away and
there were no comparable sales that
justified the the sales price right in
the area and I was like look they're
going three and a half miles away and
she was like yeah that's what they said
and I was like look everything's good in
it but the appraisals fucked up you need
to and she's like well what do I do I
said well give me the file and I'll
close it and she's like well what do I
get I was like well I mean I'll give you
500 bucks she's like I need what are you
five hundred dollars I was like you
can't close it you can't close the loan
it's done he's got a real estate
commission off it these people want to
buy the house give me the file you're
good thanks I appreciate it 500 bucks
that's what you get for a referral fee
and she's like I I really need the money
and then look you saw her look at her
you know I'm a sucker I mean fuck she's
adorable so which you know is wrong to
you know judge her on that she was also
a very smart person single mother single
mother single mother which we know I
like who to Tampa yeah he's recently
divorced
struggling to raise a young son Allison
meets Matt Cox in the spring of 2003 and
quickly begins to fall for it he had a
nice place he had really nice furniture
he was just really well connected his
friends were all young and successful
I thought the mortgage business was it
Matt Cox is a mortgage broker real
estate rehabber and overall Renaissance
man who's a talented artist to paint
elaborate murals and all his properties
about that and he's obsessed Wow he told
that con man well that's actually an
artist by the name of Tamra d lapak it's
just one of my favorite artists and I
would take I would make collages of her
artwork because I'm the place I bought
was built in like 1901 and she was
circle I'd say 1920s which was the art
deco so it was close it's a different
style but whatever it was close it was
so I bet collages and I I mean and I
paint them and and they were cool but
the Allison thing I was gonna say what
ended up happening was I ended up
splitting and I think I split the
Commission with her so but I ended up
closing the loan that she couldn't close
okay and so she ended up coming to work
for me because she was like look I can't
you know you I couldn't close this thing
down here you handed to you guys closed
it like that I said look come work for
me
I talk about I talk about all that in
this book look ha ha ha he lopped code
in the movie theater and we would go and
see movies like the one that I fell in
love with that we saw was the Italian
Job to us and he just loved that movie
he's like they got away with it you know
he loved when people got away with that
don't break my heart you told me you
were through after this I am
like his heroes in the movies Matt Cox
dreams of doing one big score and then
going legit here's the plan you'll
assume fake identities take out multiple
mortgage law did how did they get those
ID cards I was just thinking that
because you know I've only seen this
once do they make those no no those
right there I think those are the actual
ones I think the Secret Service probably
gave that really and the Secret
Service's interviewed I'm sure they gave
full cooperates to the US Attorney's
Office was interviewed him they wanted
this multiple mortgage loans on
properties he doesn't own and pocket the
money on average each loan will be
Allison goes to work at Matt Cox's
mortgage company not knowing what's in
store for her just a few weeks later Cox
calls in a favor when Allison was down
on her luck he helped her out he rented
an apartment for Allison and bought her
new furniture now it is payback time
sinister is that true that that's
actually true I did buy her she had she
was going
it does sound sinister she was going
through a divorce first of all first of
all I don't owe you anything I met you
because you gave me a loan I gave you
your money yeah you wanted to come work
for me you came to work for me
great I gave her a bunch more loans she
closed more loans these are fraudulent
loans
she knows that fraud to be being done
there so I'm not luring you in you know
what's going you've a closed several
loans at this point if they're fraud
yeah so but one of the things was she
was living in her husband's house and
they were going through a divorce she
wasn't divorced already she was getting
a divorce so I was I'm sleeping with her
I'm sleeping with another girl named
Jana so these two are fighting back and
forth it's just a fucking soap opera bro
Jana lives across the street from me
she's got a fucking girlfriend that
chick hates my guts um I mean it's just
fucking ridiculous bro
I mean Jana's chasing fucking Alison out
of the house she's chasing other girls
out I mean it's just it's fucking
outrageous so the point is is that I end
up she needs a place to stay and she's
like look I'm in my husband's house you
know Jana showed up at the fucking house
one day at her husband's house where she
lives and it's telling him she's fucking
his boss I mean just ridiculous so he's
like you got to get out so she gets out
and she's like what do I do and like
look well I don't want her to move in
with me I mean I like Alison but I can't
ever move in with me you know so I go
and I rent her an apartment in the name
of Jana
Brandon Green one of my fake people so I
rent the apartment I then take his
credit cards and I go buy her a bunch of
shit at home at a rooms to go buy her a
bunch of furniture all Brandon green
Brandon green buy she's got it like a
was a 2-bedroom 2-bath nice place in
Ybor City and when that new huge
apartment complex so she moves in there
I give her fucking money I pay her
fucking rent I don't owe you anything
but I'm doing all of this but the way
they make it sound he's you know he got
her a place he'd she owes him you owe me
anything she's asking me to commit fraud
but but you know but I mean what's but
but what they are saying is yes
did come to work for me that's true she
did come to work for me she was making
money doing fraud I did rent your place
so you know to me that's like a 90%
that's like 90% true I mean they're just
kind of tweaking it
he's like aus then I'm helping you and
my investors are helping you so that we
have your loyalty so that you'll do
anything for us there are no investment
the con man wants is for Alison to be
his partner in crime he wants her to
assume a fake identity and apply for a
mortgage loan that's once or twice but
seven times with seven different banks
he's already stolen an identity form the
name Rosita Perez a real person who
supposedly crossed a friend of his the
funny thing is look at me
I've got bluish green eyes I had blonde
hair at the time pale skin and I was
portrayed to be Rosita Perez the bankers
the closer for the title company they're
like how'd you get this name you're not
Puerto Rican or Spanish are you and my
license that I had brown eyes and I
clearly did it maybe Alison looks too
innocent to pull off a con whatever the
reason the first time she tries it she's
successful she walks away from the bank
with a check for 117 thousand dollars
what was that about yeah what she and I
went and we found a house we rented the
house she rented the house and I went
with her we walk in the house she likes
it the guy comes in the investor that
owns the house comes in meets her they
he she signs a lease she gives him some
money she rents the house I go to public
records I take the deed that's in the
house from his name and I put it into
her name Rosita Perez his name and we
satisfy the loan that he had on the
house so now she owns the house Rosita
Perez owns the house free and clear so
then we just then we apply for like five
six seven five or six or they said seven
mortgages I wanna say was five or six
but whatever let's say it's seven who
cares she applies for the loans we
scheduled a bunch of loans
we're over the next two or three days
she's gonna close on like a million
dollars worth almost a million dollars
with the loans maybe seven on this Jews
house on this guy's house I mean what am
I supposed to say I mean that's what it
was I mean he's gonna be fine he's gonna
be fine eventually the tile tile
insurance companies will pay it back
that's what always happens yeah no one
feels bad for the insurance companies
anyway okay
this is surveillance footage of Alison
trying to deposit the check I was the
girl that went to the bank and I gave
the check to the Tyler I would say okay
deposit this into my account and then I
would go slowly to pull the money out
week after week
supposedly we never got that far the
check wouldn't clear the bank because
the driver's license was fake yeah you
know what Alison we're not really out
there there hmm okay so here's what
really happened three mm-hmm so here's
what really happened what really
happened was the girl and I'm not gonna
say the girl's name which was a mortgage
broker that worked for me hmm I wouldn't
want to say her name
well cuz she's currently uh works at a
bank okay she she had a friend a girl
that she says fucked her over like oh
she tore up my she was living in her
house she tore up my furniture she cost
me $10,000 you know if you ever want to
use her information I want to get her
fucked up fuck her you know do something
you know this chicks committing fraud on
a daily basis at the mortgage company
too
by the way so she's like can you do I'm
like I don't want to do any I want
stealing buddy's identity I'm making the
fake people but she keeps pushing
Alison's pushing so I use her because
she had like 750 credit scores so I was
like okay so I said yeah but this chick
is from New York does she have a
driver's license out here she does know
she just moved here a few months ago she
hasn't even opened a bank account
nothing so she doesn't have a driver's
license issued in Florida I can go and
get and make you one that hasn't been
placed with anybody yet or assigned
anybody and then I can go and I could
open up a bank account I'd been doing it
all my fake people are being are opening
up egg counts using fake fake driver's
license numbers so I can make one for
her and it will be fine hmm
so when we put it on the license the
Alison goes and opens up a bank account
and the bank account it gets flagged
because turns out that the girl had Oh
had gotten a driver's license which I
didn't know about cuz I was told she
didn't have one so she did get a
driver's license in Florida she had it
did have
one sign she was so when she walked in
she gave her a different number it
wasn't the same number that showed up in
ChexSystems they said boom there's this
fraud something's wrong so she wasn't
able to open the bank account but that's
not even the main issue the main issue
was that she went to one title company
closed the title got the money
the next closing she went to the woman
at the title company looked at her
license and went this doesn't look like
you it was her it was her license it was
her picture I had her dye her hair black
and curl it and go in and get a DMV
photo and do the whole thing it was
really her picture but a couple days
before the closing she dyed her hair
blonde and we were like what the fuck
are you doing and she's like no it's
still my picture and we're like you're
Rosita Perez you're Spanish shit at the
very least you can I mean yeah you can
say that you were married but you still
wide why change your hair's black in the
picture and so she's all she's like it's
not a big deal and what's the problem oh
my god you're overreacting so she goes
in boom second closing the chick the
woman that the title companies like this
something doesn't make sense has her
sign all the documents but won't give
her the check Wow so that's what really
happened was then she goes in the bank
she can't open the bank account then she
gives the cheque to a buddy of mine
who's running a similar scam in Orlando
and it's been flagged so now it's been
flagged that's what what really happens
they streamline it okay eggs but none
will take it
though this scheme is foiled tox hasn't
given up the dream of doing one big
score living the rest of his days on a
beach in the Caribbean that trees you
have like a certain amount of money in
your head like I'm just gonna hit one
big lick and then I'm moving in the
Caribbean is that true no I really and
what I I'm and I say that a in here I
just said a million I just want to get a
like a million dollars and I mean I may
have said that and I did want to get
some money you know I wanted I don't
quit I don't think I had a million
dollar because there were multiple times
we had a million dollars okay you know
I'm saying so it doesn't but a lot of
times you have to understand too if we
had five million or three million
dollars out well we own four million
dollars in fucking mortgages or four
million dollars in real estate
you see I'm saying it's like you never
really have that money exact cash always
equity right Matt was the most greedy
person out there and what he wanted was
money money money money he didn't care
who he hurt who he stepped on or what he
had to do in order to get it nice so
listen man right now so I was watching
this in when I was with Treon and Mike
at the gym when I she said that I'd been
talking Balan in the halfway house right
the whole time so I picked up the phone
and I called her right then right then
and I went Matt is the greediest person
I've ever met in my entire life and she
goes you don't understand
they interviewed me for hours they
chopped it up it's not like that it's
not like what it's what you said and
she's like you know I'm so stupid
I was trying to get my sentence reduced
you don't look good laughing I was like
I don't care oh my god what's funny
though Cox and Alison breakup and Cox
goes looking for another woman to play
Bonnie to his fly
he's very you know charming but in the
beginning told me how much he cared
about me and loved me and what you know
did with us to get a place together
Rebecca Hawke is another single mom
who's fallen under the spell
another single mom her story does not
have a happy ending but it begins with
promise all of his friends watch brand
new cars or his homes I mean and I'm
thinking how the heck is I'm barely
making a sure I'm a single mom but why
have a quote Matt Cox is an unlikely
ladies man he's diminutive to me I mean
so look so the guy that we stole the
house rumor we got the house from here's
a quote from him in the book is at the
beginning of each chapter I but here's a
quote I put and his name was a Steven
Jackson real estate investor he put it's
almost impossible to stop them when
they're this talented and smart as smart
as these people Wow so I have a bunch of
quotes from just different things that
people have said throughout the whole
thing but I remember I had a quote from
him it's a good quote but what he lacks
in height he makes up for in street
smarts
he was very persuasive as far as how he
handled things looked at art to bring
that part I got things I needed the part
and he was in charge of a lot okay so
I'd liked that I liked that he could you
know the way he handled things
[Music]
Matt Cox grew up in Tampa he showed an
early whoa look at that how old were you
there 17 Jesus studied art in college
in an exclusive phone interview with
American greed Cox says he always knew
art was no way to get rich quick
I never expected to be an artist because
be good enough or make enough money as
an artist to survive his real talent is
the art of the kind and the knack for
finding the perfect sidekick they were a
single mother hero enforced they had
money problems they met him by and large
and on online dating services where he
came across as this sort of smart
well-to-do mortgage broker you know
who's artistic and who is this guy this
is Jeff testerman he wrote 3435 articles
on me over the st. Petersburg Times he's
kind of like the guy that broke the
story
oh really yeah really has a great sense
of humor and drives a nice car I think
that the women while vulnerable wanted a
piece of the pie as well he could tell
that I was you know someone that
wouldn't tell on him and you know he
could but in the meantime he's offering
me all this money and saying he wants to
take care of my son and ice and Brice to
a private school and I'm thinking you
know okay I knew about him on finally
you know I can I met someone that I know
everybody wants to take care of my son I
and people doing it and not really
paying attention to the or not wanting
me to pay attention to what he was doing
I don't you're online in north
we've been on that Cox decides Rebecca
Hall doesn't day I tell most he shows
her a good time
charms her and takes her to a movie that
could be about his own life
we saw matchstick man and it's about a
con we did see that man con artist I
think he is an actor
flim-flam man matchstick man loser
whatever you want to call it ticket a
lot of it was probably me just wanting
to overlook it more so than being
realistic and thinking okay what are you
getting involved in here
when American greed returns Matt Cox and
Rebecca Hawk go on the run and swindle
the world's biggest bank what bank was
it the world's biggest bank you saw the
Bank of America oh no this is great so
far
con artists you prefer con artists /
conman that's true in Tampa a rogue
mortgage broker named Matt Cox is
assuming fake identities to take out
multiple mortgage loans on properties he
doesn't own pocketing the money and
making millions in the process
the year is 2003 in a red-hot real
estate market the conman hides in plain
sight everybody was getting rich
everybody was flipping property jeff
testerman is an investigative reporter
with the st. Petersburg Times in the
fall of 2003 he gets a tip from an
associate of Matt Cox and we become
involved and he suggested things to me
the way a good source is supposed to do
he gave me the leads and I went to
courthouse and got the documentary
evidence to show that he was telling the
truth
testerman source says that Matt Cox the
artist is using a palette of fake names
I called them color coded aliases
Charles Hoyt
James red Brandon green Matt Cox had a
sense of humor about these things
Cox uses aliases to create Shaq
Reservoir Dogs Reservoir Dogs
I have william blue I had Lee black I
had miss Michael White I had Brandon
green James red David silver but a bunch
of them and a bunch of them that's where
you got it from yeah yeah that's great
yeah remember the guys were the guy had
the way I was doing because that the
people don't exist so who's going into
the closing right right so I the title
companies would let with because I was
had because of the mortgage company and
we were doing so many mortgages you
could go to a title company if you were
the broker and you could say look my
guys at work can I bring him the title
stuff to the title policy or sorry can I
bring the closing documents to his work
and let him sign them and they're like
I'm supposed to be there to notarize it
and they you know but you know if you're
closing a bunch of loans with this this
title company what are they gonna say
it's like you know hey man what's the
big deal we closed fucking ten loans
here last month twenty what you know and
they're like all right all right
they give me give it to me so they give
me the package and I'd have Lea black
sign the documents I go sit in the
parking lot and sign the fucking
documents and then I say make sure you
get a copy of the driver's license no
problem I get I to have a copy of the
driver's license I put it down I'd go
back in and I'd hand it to him they go
thanks Matt and then they'd notarize
their signature the guy was never there
they'd hand me all the checks and I'd
leave I've got all the checks they've
got a closing package the lender has a
closing package I make three or four
payments five six payments and then I
let it the let the place go into
foreclosure
so what wouldn't have happening one time
so I never went to a close I only end up
going to one closing at SunTrust I
borrowed two hundred fifty thousand
dollars and I went in as James read but
I think was James read anyway one time
we were doing closings and someone
somehow or another the title agent
figured out she figured out that
something wasn't right like somebody
told her I'm almost positive someone did
tell her somebody told her look these
loans that you're closing these people
don't exist because suddenly she called
the mortgage broker and she said listen
this guy James read the next closing he
has he has to show up well when I made
these fake driver's licenses I would I
would I need a photo so I would go
online to Hillsborough County
arrest records and I would just get a
photo well for James red I was using the
photo of a guy named Eric tamargo a guy
that used to trim lots for us like he
trimmed the trees and cleaned the yards
everything and haul away garbage or with
life I bought a piece-of-shit house for
40 grand he'd clean up the yard and take
the stuff away
so I had gone online one day and I found
his picture I was like fuck so I used
his picture for James read put it in
there not thinking anything just more of
a joke yeah because a lot of the guys
were people I I knew cuz I thought you
know maybe if I need the guy I need to
know the guy I don't know just felt like
she's getting it pickle yeah I could at
least go to him and maybe try and get
him to act as the person some I wasn't
sure so anyway what happens is this
chick marry at the title company calls
up and tell it says look James red has
to show up at the next closing she knows
something's wrong so fine so the broker
calls me and tells me that and I'm like
okay well he's got to show up then and
she was well how's he gonna show up he's
a mug shot on the Hillsborough County
website and I was like god I'm gonna
fucking go I'm gonna god I gotta track
the guy down I'm gonna get I'll get him
to show up and she goes fuck so I call
up Eric and Eric comes in I say hey Eric
what's up and he said sending his hey
man what's going on I said look I need
to tell you something you know all these
houses but we've been flipping we've
been buying and you think yeah yeah I
know I said okay let me tell you what
we're doing what's really happening and
I explained it to him behind the houses
for 40 we're recording him at 200 we're
borrowing 160 we're fucking walking away
with a chunk of cash we're reinvesting
the money that's what we're doing fake
people he's like fuck that's fucking man
that's fucking him that saw Mouse bro
that's blessed mate wasn't pissed he
didn't know yet oh I was using his
picture and I side egged her right um so
he sat there's a man here so why are you
telling me bro I said well because this
woman found out something's wrong and
she's saying that this guy James red has
to show up his fuck bro he's who you're
gonna get to show up like oh I was
thinking you and he goes oh fuck bro cuz
that's a that's a big favor that's a big
favor and I go I mean is it
favor Eric I said he is man oh no and I
said and he goes well wait a minute I
can't show up anyway bro he is you're
using you said you're using some
scumbags fuckin picture off the off the
fucking Hillsborough County website I
went that is true I said the problem is
Eric I said I've been using your picture
from when you beat up your wife a couple
of years ago remember you find slapped
her around man I said I you got arrested
I said I used you
he's motherfucker he jumps up and he's
ready to fucking swing this dude would
beat the brakes off me by the way
the other fucking guy to fuck with he's
like a street tough guy and I'm like
well I'm like hey listen the only reason
I used your picture the only reason I
use a picture it's cuz I knew if it came
to this you were the only person I knew
that would have the balls to pull this
off I'm asked fuck instead of the silver
tongue oh yeah he looked at me goes yeah
that's true I was like he goes why I'm
doing it for free is I'm not doing it
for free I said no no of course not bro
I mean obviously I'll pay ya so what do
you want he goes I don't remember
thinking if he asked for like more than
like 10 15 grand
I'll fucking change title companies and
I'll go in myself like I didn't want to
go in myself I'm already on federal
probation hmm so I was like I'll just go
with my fucking self I redid the ID I'll
do this and he sat there and I said what
do you want man what do you want I'm
thinking if he asked for more than 10 or
15 I'm he goes I want $500 and I went
say no more
$500 Jesus God Almighty are you serious
500 bucks it's five minutes it's gonna
be fine so I are she with him like it's
a big dick he's like no man I doing for
us Ri Ri Ri air bro all right but I'm
not giving you the money till you sign
no of course I'll saw him first sure no
problem I know you're good for it great
we go in we go into the fucking title
company III make him a fake ID he walks
in Mary comes out and walks in the day
of the closing she walks out and sees me
sitting there she goes mr. Cox why are
you here I said I'm not doing the
closing less James red shows up so Eric
stands up and goes I'm James red and she
goes
hold on one second she goes gets the
file comes back pulls out the fucking
picture that I've been using of their
drivers license holds it up and goes you
could see in her face like fuck like
what I don't know what's going on now
now she thought she knew now she don't
know now she's like it didn't make sense
this fucking guy it's she's I'm sorry
mr. red oh come on in so he should you
have your driver's license yeah I don't
have my ID on my driver's license
because I didn't want to make I couldn't
get the same picture so I I matched it
up and she's like fuck he closes when we
get to closing
he seems like ten thousand goes to Dave
Walker fifteen thousand goes to this guy
three thousand goes here seven thousand
she sees all these checks he's starting
to put it together this is a lot of
money this is a hundred and thousand
dollars being shifted around mmm I'm
getting 500 bucks so we get out and I
count I can't give him his 500 bucks and
he goes yo bro he's like that was a lot
of fuckin money then it's a lot of money
he said I mean I'm doing it for 500 I
said I said a lot of that money goes
back in the house Eric and he's like
well who's a big deal man so he leaves
like a week later I call him back I need
you to do another one he's like fuck
he's all right bro he's all I'll tell
you right now I ain't doing it for no
500 bucks I saw them checks I know you
guys are making fucking Bank I went okay
bro but what is it what do you want he
goes it's a big favor getting a lot of
trouble I said I know you could bro I
know you could what do you want because
I won $1,000 are you serious Eric a
thousand Jesus man that's twice what you
Charlie man I get a lot of trouble I
said all right bro all right but you got
a sign for naw naw I'll sign for we go
in again boom he signs Mary was so
fucking bamboozled the next time that I
actually call up and schedule a closing
I say hey Mary can I pick up the fucking
thing this time or you still got to see
this guy no no it's okay and she lets me
take the package Jesus starts all over
and so that's how like that's the only
time I had to have one so
show up then I ended up showing up like
one of the last loans that closes closer
to 50 I just showed up myself because it
was everything was just so streamlined
it was working so well right what seemed
that was working so well until the
Alison thing happened and then it all
just kind of fucking I didn't know it
was I rather like you rolling it real
estate transactions
there were several that that nothing was
authentic on the deed he created a phony
buyer and a phony seller when you've got
that going you can pretty much do
anything you want to with the price and
the mortgage in 2003 money is loose and
so our lending standards Cox applies for
loans online and he uses his artistic
talent to forge any document he needs to
support the loan he fakes driver's
licenses w tubes checking accounts and
Cox even brags about stealing the
identities of homeless people
I ordered a social security card I
ordered everything went inside DMV for
three hours and they gave me a driver's
license
it was easy
this is one of Cox's fake documents it
purports to be a satisfaction of
mortgage statement a document that says
Cox owns a property free and clear it's
signed by two witnesses Lee cook and
Jimmy balls balls
dreamed up by cogs the two witnesses
balls and cook
I think Cox short happiness would be you
know arrogance yeah you know I'm really
cooking the books with this deal and it
really takes balls to do it
Cox files the document at the
Hillsborough County Courthouse to most
banks it looks legit and Cox can take
out mortgages on a property that he
doesn't even own the person that's
living in the property is still making
the payments so it's not drawing any
kind of red flag or anything so that's
what he would do and you just get
someone that's working on the courthouse
it doesn't you know they're not paying
attention and you have the satisfaction
sent back to you and it shows that you
own it by the end of 2003 Cox has done
90 fraudulent real estate deals 90
totaling almost four million dollars by
the end of 2003 you had done that much
the in number it was see the number is
always shifting they said like a hundred
and hundred and nine transactions is
what they be I even said that I did and
they said I borrowed 11.5 million
dollars now he's saying what do you say
four million mm-hmm but at the st.
Petersburg Times Jeff testerman is about
to go to print with a major expose of
toxicity
cocks catches wind that he's about to be
front-page news and Matt knew that if
this came out it was all gonna come down
on him remember ever got in trouble and
had to run I would do that I would take
a bunch of money in line man says I got
to get out of here I got a lead you know
you want to count
Rebecca Hawk has known Matt Cox for just
six weeks incredibly she puts a 13
year-old son Brice on a plane to her
mom's house says goodbye to him and
hello to life as a fugitive it was it
was so hard and I was crying
hysterically embrace this like mom
you'll see me in two weeks and Matt's
standing there and I'm crying I'm not
standing there I'm not there at all yeah
when Bryce got on the plane
Matt's like you'll see him it'll be okay
you're gonna be able to see him as much
as you want never for you scoundrel
I never said that how dare you fucking
bullshit
complete bullshit listen listen this
chick this fucking chick man listen when
she gets arrested you know what she said
about me when they first arrested her
and immediately interviewed her but you
know remember I told you she suck and
says she's not Rebecca Hulk she is on my
name is Rebecca Hickey you have the
wrong name you're the wrong are you the
wrong person you guys are gonna she they
end up putting her hand on the thing she
felt like 45 minutes or an hour she like
denies it till they finally put her hand
out on the scanner and then she's like
all right it's me so her first interview
with me where about me was Cox's meek
he's charismatic he's he's shy he's not
he's not the kind of person that he's
not aggressive he's I mean she basically
paints me as a guy that's just not going
to is not a an aggressive type person or
a person that's that's whatever
mean-spirited whatever you want to say
yeah then she gets this lawyer with the
Johnnie Cochran law firm and it becomes
he's abusive he's manipulative he forced
me to leave my son he forced me to get a
boob job he forced me to you
you're fucking mine I knew you a month
you should we had a date on like a
fucking Thursday night or a Friday night
I'm throwing my shit this is when I find
out that the police were cut that they f
that I'm gonna be arrested by the FBI
with the next few days I'm throwing my
stuff into duffel bags she's been
calling me all all day about our date
I'm not answering
she walks in my apartment or might cut
my um my house as I'm throwing shit in
I'm like hey what's up and she's like
you know returning calls what are you
doing and I was like fucking we got a
date I was like listen uh bad news it's
coming to arrest me I'm out of here
and she says wait what are you doing you
can't leave I love you I want to come
with you we have this whole argument
about her son I'm like what are you
talking about you got a fucking kid you
you can't fucking believe it I'm going
on the run right you can't come with me
and she's like no you don't understand
he's going back he was going back to
live with his father he basically lived
with his father most of his life she
brought him with from from Vegas brought
him with her she brought him with her
yeah from Vegas he'd been picked up
twice for like a app being around out
after it like snuck out of her house
after curfew
he got caught smoking pot he was failing
all of his grades she's like I can't
handle him he's too much he's I'm
sending him back to live with his father
anyway she's like you know she's like
look he's going anyway back with his
father and I said look you know
understand I said you're not gonna see
this fucking kid again I said even if
you see him it'll be for a couple hours
and it'll be random if you see him at
all and she's like I don't care I want
the money if I can see him every once in
a while that's fine at least I can give
him some money at least you know yeah
you know so she's just fucking begging
to come with me follows me around for
two or three days won't leave me alone
and looking back on it the truth is I
could have just fucking left her you
know but she was like really worried
about it really on me and it's truth
that matter it was a major mistake to
let her come with me but at the moment I
was terrified and I was leaving
everybody I knew and everything I knew
behind and that that's a huge fucking
step to make for sure and so you know
and
so I finally just towards like the last
day I said okay look you can come with
me you know and looking back on it's
like you should I should have done this
I should have you know you're always
2020 signs I you know it is it was just
a major mistake bringing her with me
major fucking mistake and you know and I
really should have just left her and and
and for more than the reasons that she
ended up just being this bipolar maniac
other than just that it was also cuz of
her son I should have made the decision
for her I should have but the truth is
I'm going off on the run I'm terrified
but I didn't have to be alone and that's
a big thing about going off you're
leaving everybody behind and everything
you know behind and you're alone yeah so
it's like it would be easier with her
there and so I said alright you can come
but I certainly didn't convince her to
come or try and get her to come or ask
her to come or ask her leave her kids
because then it turned into he's abusive
he's manipulative he made me get a boob
job
I mean you out of your fucking mind a
boob guy sure boobs were fine okay it's
just you know and then they then they
focus in on the whole single mother
single mother they don't mention Jana
Jana wasn't single I mean she knew she
didn't have any kids you know I dated
tons of women didn't have kit didn't
have any kids they always see you gotta
practically cut this out because I get
so fucking angry about the whole fucking
thing it's just irritating Shaunie
it's like her law firm I mean you know
it's a funny is that normally I'm very
poised about the whole thing like you
know it was my fault that I'm apologetic
and I do the whole thing but this this
this it's like being just blatantly lied
about it just infuriates me yeah just
and it's just you know you know and
what's so funny is that you know I've
talked to her since I've been out right
you know and she's like so like how did
that conversation go it actually she
ended up meeting some guy in the halfway
house they got married she's got another
kid she's very nice she's a nice person
like now and even she says I'm like you
were a fucking maniac and she's like I
was going through something okay she's
like it was it was a bad time for me
she's a much better now
I feel I just had I even told her look
and I was we were talking about that she
told me her I tell you this she told me
her lawyer showed up drunk for her at
her sentencing oh really
yeah she goes she said you know and Gail
McKenzie and and she's talking about the
US Attorney she fucking said this and
this and everybody was pushing me to say
this and say that match is you
understand I was trying to get my
sentence reduced to no I understand I
said but you know the problem is now I
have to live with it I said so
she is well I'm sorry I wish I could do
something if I could do something I
would I go you could you could go on the
podcast with me I said you could go on a
podcast with me and say what really
happened she said I can't do that why
she said because I've been telling my
mother and my my husband the story she
said for the last 12 years earth-mars 10
years just know I can't change now
hopefully he doesn't see this podcast so
and I told her listen I haven't asked
her once bro I've asked her like five
fucking times I'm like I'm telling you
didn't tell your husband go to your
husband you have a good relationship
she's oh my god he's the best he's
amazing he's a great guy he's guys great
it's a great guy then he'll understand
the situation you were in and you just
ran with it because you didn't want to
own up to the fact that you made some
bad fucking decisions mmm so say those
guys out now and I want to clear the air
and I'll feel so much better about
myself I'll feel better about the
situation I want to do the right thing
shows no no no no no she ain't come when
she is I'm not gonna do that
mm-hmm she said look I I can't do that I
said okay well I said you understand I
said at some point if somebody asked me
I'm gonna fucking say it she goes no I
understand me he'll she's never gonna
meet you she's like is oh she said I
understand so we'll see what she says
if I ever talk to her again Wow okay
a few days later on December 14th 2003
Testament series dubious deals hits the
newsstands the reporter details of fraud
worth more than four million dollars but
Matt Cox is gone he was never seen in
Tampa again ever
the trail went cold for me for one where
Cox was like I didn't know the people
who know him best assume he's fled the
country they think he's gotten on the
cruise ship any he's headed to some
Island South Cox's ex-girlfriend Alison
Arnold is among those asking questions I
always wondered you know what happened
where are they Alison has not been
caught for her role where did they get
those photos of you those photos you
wear like the Superman shirt and some
computer well I know the one chick next
to me was on your myspace on MySpace
was that not around o3 I think that
myspace was around I mean I was it when
was myspace around I don't know I know
this chick I met named myspace started
this 2003 2003
yeah 2003 well I wasn't on it okay no I
would say that's probably Alison Arnold
and probably Jana
because the one chick in the picture
where I have a Superman thing and she
has one that's Jana okay one of Cox's
scams six months earlier she poses as
Rosita Perez and takes out fraudulent
home loans
though the police have not yet come
knocking on her door allison is worried
she knows the Heat's on I was a nervous
wreck I got a job as a waitress because
I couldn't work for any bank my hands
would shake my conscious was so heavy
Allison decides to call the FBI
so I spilled my guts out said everything
Allison tells the feds everything she
knows to help them catch Cox Allison
thinks her cooperation will buy her
immunity from prosecution wrong
eventually she's sentenced to two years
in prison for bank fraud you want to
hear this there's like 14 or 15 people
on the indictment right so they've all
been indicted but the FBI doesn't do
anything they're waiting to catch me
I've talked to a bunch of people
everybody's going in and say Matt did
this method that some people are going
to say know so and so did this so and so
did this so they're saying no I didn't
do that so and so everybody's pointing
but they've got they understand
everybody who's involved because by the
time they talk to me they're they've
walk in with a stack of fucking 302 boom
they're like I mean you're done mm-hmm
so which I know I'm done anyway so the
point is is that they haven't they have
an invest to get even arrested anybody
you've known about this for six months
or so you haven't got anything why
aren't you arresting they're waiting to
catch me because I figure we'll catch
Cox
we'll catch that the top dog he'll just
explain everything that happened will
crack everybody in the head and it'll be
fine right
they don't expect that I'm gonna be
missing so long Allison is riddled with
guilt mm-hmm and she robbed fear she's
like fuck they're gonna come arrest me
someday right so she goes into the FBI
and says I just want to tell you what
happened get charged be sentenced and be
done with it I'll cooperate against
everybody she had initially when she
talked to him she thinks she is thinking
I won't go to jail I'll do probation at
the most yeah and I'll cooperate so she
goes in she cooperates she agrees to
plead guilty turns herself in I'm sorry
No
nobody else does guess who the only
person that ends up like on that
indictment that ends up going to prison
is the only person that owns up to
everything they did cooperates against
everyone straight to fucking prison
you don't get shit fuck you you go to
prison that's what they fucking did
everybody else on the indictment know
half them people are still working in
banking Wow
now in that I mean I don't want to say
hilarious but fucked up that's fucked up
because you know the least that the the
least culpable person in my entire
indictment is Allison Arnold she walked
into one bank two closings didn't make a
fucking I think maybe I gave her felt I
gave her like ten grand for doing it
like hey look you know we really didn't
really make any money but here's like 10
grand or something and I had been giving
her money and she's closing loans she's
doing okay
but we didn't make any money so where's
their money to give you there's nothing
to give you what about the blonde girl
how much time did she give Oh Becky
Becky Becky wasn't a part of this
conspiracy she's a part of the next
conspiracy when I take off on the run so
she's not even on my indictment oh shit
okay right the only other person that
goes to jail is is Eric tamargo but he
goes to jail not because of the
indictment he goes to jail because he's
already on federal probation and he
fails a fuckin piss test and because
he's on this other indictment they go
ahead and they violate his probation and
give him like 30 months or something he
goes to Coleman he does the drug program
so I mean she's the only one on the
indictment that goes to prison for the
indictment he goes to one on a violation
she because she felt bad Josie huge
guilty conscience I mean it's just the
nicest person you know so fuck half T
sentence for somebody who had no
previous criminal records really I had
no knowledge of everything that I was
totally doing but I followed along and
did something yes that I know was
illegal yes you know everybody knows
that right and wrong inside but I just
I don't think the consequences would be
like this while Alison faces prison Matt
Cox and Rebecca Hart head to Atlanta
when American breed returns Matt Cox
lives out a real-life game of catch me
if you can that's true
what this is great this is even all this
isn't even on YouTube I don't think this
thing oh no oh no no yes geyser in the
comments or pockets Matt Cox and his
girlfriend Rebecca Hawk are on the run
Cox has swindled more than 4 million
dollars for banks in Tampa in a mortgage
fraud scam and he's hungry for more
hungry it is one of the hardest hit
cities by mortgage fraud probably sir
maybe it started to get worse I fell for
some hope so hard and so fast he just
made you think that it was no big deal
that you know what he was doing was fine
and then he would say if it ever comes
to it just blame me you know you won't
you won't get Joe I'll take the blame
for everything
Thaksin Hawk go looking for a house to
rent with a plan to take over the
homeowners identity I remember this tell
me that people believed women more than
they believe them in Hawk using the name
Grace Hudson poses as a single woman
looking at rent this house they realize
Rhetta so how did you go about making
that the the the older ID is that always
like that's fucking laminate bro that's
just laminate the peel exacto knife and
a printer or any machine yeah my laptop
I just have Photoshop back then they had
footwea that we've had this conversation
they had insurance they've had Photoshop
but I just used word and I just lined up
everything was identical I lined up all
the fonts all the spacings everything
exactly the way it would be when you
printed a license all the word on word
then I just printed out on a piece of
laminate in Reverse okay so that then
when you have the actual driver the
actual piece of plastic I would just
take 220 grit sandpaper and lightly sand
off the actual in from the text like
your real name so I have the Holograms I
have the Florida ID where it says
Florida Florida Florida that whole thing
I have your picture I have everything
the state of the the state of the
Sunshine State and all that everything
in green is lodged into the DoublePlay
right that's what you left on there you
didn't sand that off no and I've been
black you seen just that just yeah just
the information right like I would leave
the other stuff like your issue day
expiration height all that shit
signature no signature I would have to
she'd have to sign like this grace hussy
okay so I would then print the laminate
overlay it glue it on with an actual
glue stick now you got the piece of
plastic with the thing flip it over
take an exacto knife an exacto knife it
around takes him to doing it 220 grit
sandpaper buff off the sides hit it a
couple of times beat it up a little bit
like any license you've got in your
pocket for six months it's beat up a
little bit and then I'll you can go in
and say boom boom a million bucks here's
here's my name and they look at it and
they make a copy and they you know even
if they ran the net the number would
work like you could go through check
systems open bank account dozens and
dozens are does I've had a shitload of
fucking banks opened using a fake
driver's license guys names wrong it's a
completely fabricated any of these did
you create in your entire career you
think maybe like that yeah
20 or 30 and because then I eventually
figured out how to just get the DMV to
issue me the goddamn license right I'm
just gonna get you to just just make it
because then I can go I can get pulled
over by the cops and hand him the real
license makers on it yeah yeah why would
I why would I keep making the easier
yeah poses as a single woman looking to
rent this house and Alpharetta a suburb
of Atlanta she meets with the owner
Michael Shanahan he and I talked for a
while and he was you know he was very
nice and and that was a heart that
because he was the only person that I
really met face to face grace Hudson
Rebekah's alias ran our home and Matt
Cox takes over the landlord's identity
what I did was I I used a child social
security number and I went got some
credit cards in his name what opened
some Bank by the way which child was it
it was a child of and was family renting
it before you or what child no no you
said I used the child social security
number I may I went to Social Security
right and I got them to issue a social
security number to a child that was 10
months old
oh god it so was a it's a child it's a
fake child's not a real child right and
I would then I would marry it so I'd
pull get credit cards in the name of
that with that so SH in the name Michael
Shanahan
I've got your driver's license mm-hmm
the driver's license that did the date
of birth and everything matches that
everything matches right and I've got
these these uh credit cards and
everything issued to you I open up a
bank account in your name I open up
everything in your name now I'm it's
completely synthetic identity it because
the only thing it's the same is the name
everything else was different on him
date of birth address because I wasn't
using that address I used another
address because when we borrowed money
on that house we didn't borrow it as a
owner-occupied property we borrowed it
as a rental property because then
they'll issue the check right away a
hard money guys don't typically lend
money on owner-occupied properties they
prefer to lend money on investment
properties why is that I have no idea it
has something to do with the lending and
the ability to foreclose on it you
foreclose on investment property living
in it's hard if we're close on way more
difficult okay kick out hoping that none
of this would hit my goal Shanahan's
now posing as Michael Shanahan the owner
of this $200,000 house Cox goes looking
for money well I met the fellow calling
himself Michael Shanahan in this at the
front door here
remember those god Waldman is not a
faceless bank he'll end his own
hard-earned money to people who need
short term loans I was there a primarily
to see the condition of the house at the
time it didn't occur to me to wonder
about his identity or anything to that
effect
Cox posing as Michael Shanahan tells
Holman he wants to borrow money against
the equity in his home the man seems
trustworthy and the home is good
collateral the story was that he owned a
house free and clear and wanted to
borrow money against it to start a
business he had just moved back from the
UK wanted to start a business and needed
one hundred and ten thousand dollars or
so I bought it hook line and sinker
within a couple of weeks the deal is
done
holman has no idea cox is also talking
to a friend of his on what they call a
hard money lender like lend money mostly
to other investors buying properties to
renovate and resell sucker and he wants
$100,000 but they don't interview the
st. Martin Shanahan seems like a sure
thing it was a fifty percent loan to
value loan up in Alpharetta Georgia and
a beautiful neighborhood very low risk
lenders do their homework
Holman runs a title check on the house
and a background checked on Shanahan at
the closing we got his ID and he had
actually more than the normal ID he had
Florida driver's license he had a credit
card and a social security card all in
the name Michael Shanahan so everything
checked out and we made the loan
thinking that we had secured interest in
the property
a month later Peter st. Martin realizes
Michael Shanahan has missed his first
loan payment was gone by then I pulled
out like a month later like four hundred
thousand yeah within a month yeah yeah
we can that's the one where I actually
were in the bank they go when I was
pulling there was trying to cash one of
the checks that Scott cut no and they
fuckin they're running a check and
everything remember the guy was
twenty-nine thousand dollar check yeah
and you called them from they and well
they called me on my phone they they're
like hey we're trying to verify this
I just refined my own check that which
there is in the book right okay so yeah
and so I end up getting a like for
LeBron like four hundred thousand
dollars Becky and I get out around
400,000 and week within weeks and we
just take off like I didn't know I
didn't know these two guys know each
other fucking chances are that I mean
how am I supposed to know so anyway yeah
this is when the Secret Service gets
involved but neither man is worried each
thinks he's the first in line to
foreclose if necessary and I'm happy
about it and I'm looking forward to
taking back this collateral and selling
it very quickly at a very nice profit
although we don't do these loans with
the purpose for getting the house back
it's not necessarily a disaster for us
but Matt Cox will have the last laugh
that's why I remember pretty similar to
that when I remember a short time later
the two friends are at a concert
together and they begin to compare notes
kind of saying where is your property
you know cuz you do most so John I were
chatting and mentioned that yeah we did
this law and you're not gonna you know
this guy's first month default blah blah
blah I don't know what rang up familiar
Bell there but I asked Peter what street
was the lone dog my mind was keying him
and you're like oh and I said oh it's
the same property I'm address and I said
what was the guy's name and he said
Michael Shanahan he said uh
unbelievable well in the fact that he
borrowed money from you and me we both
know each other and more wrong i sat
there during the rest of that concert
thinking that I was probably out a
hundred and ten thousand dollars and not
real happy about it
John Holman calls the US Attorney you
say the insurance companies pay them
back here he says the one guy he says
you already got paid back he's one of
the guys the one guy he gray he right
here he shows up at my sentencing really
sure he's the guy he's the one that
showed up shows of my sentencing and my
US attorney is like you know mr. Holmes
or whatever his name is um he he mr.
cock stole a hundred and ten thousand
dollars from from him and he they that
was his own money and he you know this
is all he does by their this guy's like
a multi-millionaire plus he's got a
credit line so I mean it's not like he
works at 7-eleven anyway he he you know
stole his money he couldn't afford to
lose that much money and you never got
any of that money back did you and he
goes this is in front of a judge at my
sentencing he owes um actually I did get
the money back
she goes what what I take it the money
back she was when did you get the money
I mean this is fucking courtroom these
fucking reporters stopped judging me so
anyway there's reporters and the fucking
judge and they're having this
conversation it's like I fog on hundred
people in the fucking thing and he and
he's like we I did give the money back
and she's like well when and he's like
it was it was a shortly after you know a
month or two later I got it back and she
goes well well what about the payments
he missed he has no no I got the
payments back to what do well she must
be out something she's like no I got I
got everything back she goes what about
well what about an attorney's fees
anything oh no no he's I did I did have
to pay some attorneys fees I was about
$1,500 yeah yeah I did pay some
attorneys fees and she's $1,500 well
that's a lot of money she's you couldn't
afford to lose that could you and he
goes um no no I couldn't I couldn't loot
there was a lot of money to me and it's
a it's like brawl I mean I mean nothing
it's not fucked up what I did not that
it's not that but you know it's it she
just they're desperate to fucking make
you look as bad as they possibly can
yeah and here I pay back yeah from the
Thailand guys one of the guys well no
the other guy gets paid back to he just
doesn't get paid back during this
episode he's been paid back okay he's
not on my I don't owe him money he's not
a part of my
fucking my restitution because he was
paid back and who paid him back the
title insurance
I said his in title insurance yeah
company is on my restitution I owe them
the money ok so it's like if you say oh
you stole half a million dollars or two
million dollars from Bank of America or
five hundred thousand fifty thousand
from Bank of America it's like yeah but
Bank of America got paid back so why are
you saying Bank of America because who I
really owe is lawyers title they pay
them back but see that's too complicated
so it's easier to say you stole this
money from me you know I never got paid
you owe Bank of him or you Oh JA and so
and so well actually I don't owe him
anything right so but go ahead sorry in
his office in Atlanta and the case is
routed to the US Secret Service the
Secret Service isn't just in the West
Wing of the White House more and more
they're taking on white-collar crime we
we protect the president and former
presidents but we also deal with any
kind of financial crime anything that
affects the financial infrastructure of
the United States Special Agent Andrea
peacock doesn't know who Michael
Shanahan and grace Hudson really are it
was John and Jane Doe and we obtained
our initial warrants John and Jane Doe
The Secret Service creates a wanted
poster and eventually tracked down a
former associate of Cox's in Tampa he
did in fact know who he was and Scott
told us his name was Matthew Bevan Cox
yoga agent peacock learns that Matt Cox
has taken out three loans on Shanahan's
property for a total take of more than
three hundred thousand dollars Peter st.
Martin is out of luck
his titled insurance will not cover the
laws one hundred six thousand dollar
loss overnight to a small business that
could have easily put me out of business
at that time it hurts it hurts badly
that I don't have access to that mine
agent peacock talks to the real Michael
Shanahan who realizes he's a victim of
identity theft
credit cards and checking accounts have
been taken out in his name and it's
looking that the statue that Cox left it
behind in Shanahan's house pour salt in
his wounds you dirtbag listen man I met
listen let me tell you about the statue
that is listen frauds not a full time
thing okay it's if we fucking a lot of
down time we're doing rock climbing
we're fucking we're going hiking or
jogging we're right we're just fucking
we're doing anything - so I make this
paper mache statue of a man screaming
and agony screaming and I get nothing to
do with like he's on fire or somebody
just saying it's a statue anyway so what
happens is when I went on we go to leave
and we're packing up our stuff I can't
fit the statue in the fucking car and
the the the the van that we've got so I
have to leave the we met we took out
them talking to them and I'm sorry we
take out the back thing like the back
seat yeah we can't pack everything in so
Becky's like we're gonna have to leave
it healthy a big like Astro van or
something no like a minivan it's like a
like a Honda Element or something oh
okay so I have to leave it so I leave it
and I we leave the back the bet the the
back seat in the garage mm-hmm when I
when this guy shows up at my sentencing
he says that one we trashed the house
not sure how we trashed the house we had
the carpets cleaned it was in his good
shape as it was when we left I don't
when we moved in I only had a bedroom
set we didn't buy furniture we had
nothing with a fucking bedroom set and
then it's just the two of us we'd been
there a month or so I mean we've been
there a few months so this thing I leave
in the garage he says I left it in the
living room and that when he walked in
the house it was in the living room and
the whole house was trashed trashed with
what we don't have anything
it wasn't trashed and it was in the
garage not that I'm saying what I did
was right well I'm saying
it's always like it's like oh I always
picture him like hiking it in and
sitting it down
staging the whole thing too you know and
trashing that it wasn't trash but anyway
yeah but the statute so it's he turns it
into it was he was taunting me he was
taunting you bro you think I I worked
fucking like hours and hours you see him
go pass right you think I didn't want to
bring my statue
I would love to redo that statue you
should I never been auction it off okay
sorry
he told me that he felt like he was
leaving it behind on purpose because
that was the way he felt when he saw
that statue realized what Cox had done
to him he felt like he was mocking him
that's that's it I do owe him on him
he'd want to leave he paid he had to pay
an attorney he ended up having to pay an
attorney like $4,000 and the attorney
contacted all the title insurance
companies and had them pay off all that
you know those loans got paid off and
everything so and those guys those guys
so instead of just him calling and
talking to the two guys that they just
interviewed like hey look what happened
okay my name is I'm not really Michael
I'm a couple the real Michael Shanahan
here's what happened instead of doing
that he hired an attorney that did all
that for him and that was about four
grand okay and I own that documents just
as a trail to see this is what I've done
he's just like trying to catch me you
can't
flush with cash cocks and Hawk go on a
spending spree I went from having
absolutely no money to having money and
even now I think god I wasted a lot of
money nonsense
the chick is Vincent Hogg is obsessed
with clothes and jewelry Matt Cox is all
about fast cars
and breast implants I didn't I didn't
need them I mean I was fine everything
was fine like I said no complaints
whatsoever from anybody else but he was
always wanted this kind of trophy person
and of course me I'm like ask if this is
gonna make you happy let me you know let
me do this what are you serious first of
all she already had fucking boobs I
don't understand what if she got a boob
job that she moves off and and she look
you know what happened there fucker
listen we we ended up stealing a bunch
of money she you know what no this is
when she got it that's true we we got a
bunch of money and so I was gonna have
four hundred and change right yeah it
was almost four hundred thousand okay
roughly they said three hundred thousand
was like four hundred yeah um I said
look I'm gonna get this done yeah
you know I'm gonna get fuckin rhino
platinum and get a fucking facelift I'm
gonna get I'm gonna get a bunch of shit
done just cuz it ain't good bro my
fucking pictures everywhere we ran where
they got all kinds of shit at night your
turn on it now we're going on the
internet and this fucking my pictures
everywhere now not that you're gonna
find me because you don't you don't know
my name but it's bad so I was like I'm
gonna fucking change this and this and
then she is she's like I want I want a
fucking boob job Mike fuck yeah if you
want a boob job get a boob job give a
shit I don't even want to be around this
fucking broad she's driving me nuts
so she's bipolar she wouldn't take the
medication she gets on the medication a
couple times she gets the cops called on
me multiple times cuz she's screaming at
two o'clock in the morning she's a
fucking lunatic so she said she would
take the medication for like a month and
it would start to work and then she
would get off it cuz she said I felt
like well I would
I'm okay now mmm okay and I killed your
taking the medication but she didn't
like the way it made her feel and it was
the only thing keeping her sane
got it so so this is the point where you
go and spend a shitload of money getting
your face all read remodeled with right
so I gave everything done so that's why
I don't have that receding hairline and
the nose job because my nose was round
real round and she's got fucking some
some some leg implants or something so
fucking charted I had looked I looked
into it but but she would have had to
have watched me for like three months I
can't have her watching he would have
been immobilized lost are you Seri dude
you saw misery right I mean no I can't
have her watching me she fucking come in
with a baseball bat or something and
beat my ass oh absolutely not I mean you
don't know she look you look at her
right now think you sweet fucking
lunatic so yeah did not ask her to get a
boob job but to be honest they did do
excellent work it was it was a swan
Institute and yeah and and it's called
The Swan Institute and in in Atlanta and
they did they did excellent I'm just
saying in general I said firm yeah they
were nice you know they were you know
even and so I ended up going to the
doctor and getting that down
Matt Cox treats his girlfriend's body as
a canvas he can paint or twist to fit
his fantasies fucker he does the same
silicone appearance when we left he got
obsessed with the way he looked and how
his physique was and stuff like that I
mean he went he hardly ever ate he had a
nose job done lipo done under here he
handed on his side so he had yeah he had
a lot of surgeries all of it of course
is paid with money stolen from his
victims I don't know what would motivate
someone to do that greed is the first
thing that you think of but there was
more than greed I think there was a big
dose of ego involved in this crime for
this particular individual it was the
rush it was the thrill of the chase and
he thought he could get away with it
forever they'll never catch me one
American greed return payoff see how the
law catches up with Congress I'm freaked
out and now Cox escapes
[Music]
No what are you gonna call this I don't
know any ideas if something American you
gotta do something with American the
actual the American greed episode yeah
something narrated by Secret Service
Special Agent Andrea peacock is on the
tale of Matt Cox and Rebecca Hawk two of
the most wanted financial fugitives but
the Secret Service is never sure where
they are or what names they're using it
was impossible to predict what identity
he would use next Cox has as many 50
aliases they have Oliver jr. Philip
Daniel Morgan Corbin Blair Thomas
Matthew Bevan Cox Sunday Herald scott
keebler
Walter Andrew Holcomb Richard Paul Gray
hockey junior James Franklin paid they
do just a parter thousand such as the
pride of hawks and Hawk pull into
Columbia South Carolina where Bridget
Brown and her husband are trying to sell
their home this is a flyer that their
realtor produced to show our home when
we were trying to sell it chose a
quintessential suburban neighborhood and
little house on a pond try as they may
the home won't sell it was a stressful
time because I was traveling weekly two
of us already with my son for his
surgical treatments their son Colby is
sick and they need to move closer to
care in Georgia
of no idea the old house continues I
just say they have a sick son until
decide to try some here later
you a friend of ours recommended that we
offer owner financing so that that would
make the home competitive and also open
it up to people that previously could
not have afforded a conventional loan
just one week after the Browns offer
owner financing the phone rings that
night it was scary Sullivan or the man
we thought was very soft no home no well
that Cox as a new was it was there I
never talked to her or the husband until
the day of we went to closing what
happened was I had hired an attorney I
had hired a real not hired I got a
realtor yeah we went to a bunch of
different properties and I put and
properties that people were willing to
own or finance
so I would walk in the property I look
around I say okay great what do they
want for one hundred and ten thousand
put a hundred and ten thousand dollars
contract on it and they go okay and I
wanted to own or finance it ten percent
down no problem I leave I put half a
dozen contracts out okay what one of the
I got two houses got a house for one
hundred and ten thousand which I
borrowed like ninety several about four
or five loans for around ninety to
ninety five thousand dollars on like
half a million like three four hundred
thousand dollars on on one house their
house was going for two 24 to 25 so I go
in I walk in I look at the house I go
great how much they want to twenty foot
let's say tune of 225 225 thousand I say
okay great put a contract in I'll put
10% down they go okay no problem but
they got owner financed it no problem so
they called me back realtor calls back
hey well how's this gonna work well I
talked to the realtor for a little bit
here I'll do this I'll do this I'll do
this put 10% down he was okay no problem
he calls back and says they'll do it
it's a little bit longer dragged out the
phone calls a little bit longer but
whatever within a few hours like that
night like after I see the house like
that night or the next night I got a
they're ready to sign a contract I've
never talked to him okay I don't know
anything about any sick child nobody was
there she says at one point she says
that like
she was there when I walked in and
Rebecca Hulk walked in but I had a male
realtor that walked in with me and no
one was in the home nobody was there so
maybe she's miss remembering it I don't
know just like she said I called her I
didn't call it you had a realtor you
call her a liar I'm saying that's not
what happened what he's saying I'm
saying I talked to my realtor my realtor
talked to their realtor their realtor at
some point contacted me I never talked
first of you have a realtor you don't
talk to the buyer you talked the
Realtors are talking that's what you're
paying them for you're not talking to
him I never talked to her
till the day of the closing hmm so then
we had the day of the closing and I walk
in this part I do remember because she
said this a few times I walk in we all
meet hi how are you one of the things
they wanted me to do was to write out
all the key like 18 months with a check
source our like a year's worth of checks
so they could just deposit him and I had
suggested that so I ride all the checks
out January forevermore whatever here
and she says and as we're talking I
remember her saying she was joking
around above we said something and I was
talking to her I had Invisalign in the
braces I said I'm sorry I have these
braces in and I like pop them out and
she goes oh you got wore your teeth
messed up I go out there a little bit
tweak that it's trying to fix him up I
said you know I made a crack I said
listen when you're five foot six I said
everything's got to be perfect so the
hair the face the teeth the Wardrobe the
bank account everything she starts
laughing um and I remember her husband
was like he's like six foot tall I go I
go mr. dot who was a doctor dr. Brennan
I go dr. Brown wouldn't know anything
about that and she starts she looked at
him and laughs and uh so I write the
checks and she says something about well
when I we give out the document like we
give out our driver's license she says
something about oh yeah something
something yeah I had my identity stolen
one time and I like looked at her like
like what is it like fuck and I was like
oh okay really and she's like yeah and
I'm sitting there by band remember
thinking just that the idea that she had
said it
and she says it went in one of these
interviews someone maybe not this one
was one of them she says he looked at me
with this shocked look on his face like
when I had my identity been sold
something like that anyway so we all
signed the documents I give him the 25
my 10% down which was like 25 grand and
and I leave I make a few payments I
satisfied alone I borrow like a million
dollars or so on their house I pull out
the money you know I get caught in the
bank the whole you know the whole thing
a year and a half a year about a year
later fortune magazine comes out and it
says that I stalked them because I knew
that they had a sick child and they were
desperate to sell the house I didn't
know you were desperate I didn't know
you had a sick child I didn't know you I
was driven around by a realtor I put a
contract out on a contract on the house
I borrowed the money what I did was
wrong I absolutely went to prison for
that I am sorry for that I I owe them
she's gonna say that I I like stole
$200,000 from them or something no I
didn't you had a mortgage on the house
for two hundred and one thousand dollars
of what you owed sold the house for 225
I put down twenty five thousand you
owner financed two hundred thousand you
had what's called a wraparound mortgage
you I make payments to them they make
payments to their lender you didn't have
any equity you were getting money to pay
your - I owe you two hundred thousand in
equity that you don't possess because
the equity is actually held by the by
the lender right so I'm paying you
you're paying the lender you don't have
any equity you already owe yo two
hundred thousand now I owe you a balance
I can just go back to paying their own
mortgage right so well they can
foreclose III even though you still
foreclose on they can foreclose on me
take that they did for they foreclose
took the house back and resold the house
oh shit okay but I do owe them about ten
grand because they thought they hired an
attorney hmm - because I encumbrance
their their title so I absolutely owe
them Oh then the 10th out and they're
they're all my on my restitution payment
for ten grand that's what I owe him but
he or she says oh he took I think I
think
she says I stole two hundred thousand
from her something but you didn't have
two thousand two hundred thousand in
equity that's it's just one of those
things is tweaked not that what I did
wasn't wrong it's just one of those
things that they they just a little bit
here just enough to make you a you know
like I've said before it's like me
arguing the point is like saying I
didn't murder ten people I only murdered
seven yeah it's okay well I'm still
scumbag I'm not saying nobody's saying
I'm not a scumbag I'm just saying I
didn't murder ten people I have murdered
seven which is why we're doing this my
bad Jerry Sullivan is actually a
homeless person Cox met on a trip to Las
Vegas that's true you want the long
version of this story as long as first
layer the first podcast yeah you only
did with Matt you ought to put the man
fuck you ought to put the little the
little things like when they they're
wall yeah yeah like watch it you should
do that throughout the whole thing like
watch the whole yeah oh yeah obviously
people if you haven't already watched
the first podcast with Matt that is the
zinger that's the one that has like one
and a half million views yeah I figure
that's called it was like number of
fifty no it's like forty some wasn't
really that's 43 or something and you
know the thing in and look hey here's
the thing - and that podcast is maybe
50% of the story I mean the whole story
I write the whole fucking story so you
really know how how I did this what I
did that the whole thing oh it's number
forty number forty podcast number for
you was the first one we did that's
where you told all of the story about
Las Vegas were like were like 50 sick
are you you're buying it you're buying
me dinner you gotta buy me what are you
talking about a virus going on around
here I'm not getting fucking Kovac did
you know that they canceled fucking two
James Bond movie tomorrow no James Bond
cancelling movies the movie theater you
know how long I've waited to see this
fucking movie I love James Bond
everything's fucking cancelled man it's
crazy it's ridiculous it's ridiculous
the end
yeas canceled they canceled all the NBA
games not broken up about that I don't
watch sports anyway that's pretty
big-time acting fucking Diaz a lot of
money in the NBA
yeah well I'm starving by the way yeah
anyway this is a scam Cox does again and
again he would take this form that he
created they titled a Federal
Statistical survey tried to make it look
from you know official form number in
the small print it has u.s. government
printer office I need us for you know
full name of birth you know the their
mother's maiden name
father's name security had they ever
been arrested any kind of information
that could have thought when I was being
when I was being interviewed by her and
then the US Attorney they asked me where
I got the form and I what do you mean
they go well this is a government form
where'd you get it I went did you
download it and I went that's not a
government for they go it says it's a
government form right here like they're
like angry every time I ever said
anything that was true that they
disagree what they get angry what this
it says it right here was like no that's
not I made the form I got the fucking
look I got the logo here I got the and
they were always like they really I was
so shocked I was just like but what by
the time you're done with the interview
you realize you just don't know anything
yeah I thought I really thought I was
gonna walk in and they had it all laid
out and they knew everything but they
really don't they know bits and pieces
mhm so but yeah the the the form was
completely fabricated yeah he gives the
con man everything he needs to create a
new identity
I ordered his social security card I
ordered everything
with his identity secured as Gary
Sullivan Cox learns about the Browns
home and moves in for the kill he was
very unassuming very demure kind of
quiet
the conman cracks jokes at his own
expense he talks about the braces
he just had put on his loins and he said
when you're as short as I am you don't
have much to go it so everything has to
be perfect
the conman is so good Richard Brown
feels sorry for it and we knew from what
we were told that he had a bad credit
history so I was concerned that you know
he may be in County
going into that situation again yet I
wasn't thinking that this was a criminal
mastermind that was really playing us I
just thought this is a young man who's
very insecure and trying hard here even
now I get upset for the fact that these
people have worked all their lives and
we come in and just you know with the
and they want to believe you everybody
wants to believe someone they don't want
them to think that you know you're gonna
cheat them at ur their you know their
life savings or whatever and that's what
we did it's not what happened Browns
think they've closed the book on their
housing crisis they're wrong a lender
referred for referred him to me for
closing Mary now degenhardt is a real
estate attorney in Columbia South
Carolina a few days after representing
Gary Sullivan at another closing she
talks to an abstract er someone who
researches a properties title she said
your your mortgage is recorded in first
position but there's four or five right
behind you within two days on the same
property I knew then what he had done he
had refinanced with several different
attorneys and there's a lag time at the
county so you would have never seen the
mortgage until they hit all at once
it's too late the mortgage checks you'll
see here many times how many people in
the guys in the comment section let's
say like that's not possible you can't
do that the bangs that well that's the
title
that's a title person right there just
told you that that's very possible
and Matt Cox has taken 1.2 million
dollars on a $200,000 house 1.2 houses
that their house and another house their
house I didn't get 1.2 I got like 400
I got like 900,000 or something like I'm
theirs and I got like 400,000 another
cuz the total was like 1.3 million right
but it was two different houses okay
he's just one of those things like they
decided they they must have said elope
will fucking had it together stretch
that will just add it to it'll stretch
that true to complicated which is fine
still more attaining that's fine the
banks in town immediately I believe what
Kobe was the one that put a fraud alert
out through the system it was bad
on March 4th 2005 very Sullivan strolls
into a Wachovia Bank in Columbia South
Carolina to withdraw money the bank
teller sees that a fraud alert has been
issued on this name then I thought you
had plastic surgery down at this point
no no I hadn't done the hair the hair
yet but you had the nose job no no no I
hadn't had it done yet oh okay I thought
you did minutes deputy sheriff's arrived
and asked Gary Sullivan to come downtown
I had the nose to freak out and he's
arguing with the guy and we're arguing
yeah I had it done by like convinced for
the helping allele about
up now I remember the story from podcast
number four yeah yeah yeah from fried
cats number 48 also in the book you
gotta buy the look and Matt Cox talked
his way out this time for more
information and web exclusives on the
crimes of Matt Cox go to American
grieved on cnbc.com acts that go to
inside true crime calm Matt Cox the
financial fugitive is stopped at a bank
in Columbia South Carolina he was at the
teller and the cops came in and
handcuffed him and said come with me and
he was like oh crap I'm freaking out
Cox goes downtown to the sheriff's
department
they let him dry in his car and that's
what he called me because you made this
is bad he's like they're here they pick
me up at this point they don't know he's
Matthew Cox I think he's Gary Sullivan
the homeless person Cox steals the
identity of a street person and takes
out one business where she says I'm not
bailing you out
fuck you if you say fuck you but yes
he's like I do not get to million
dollars worth of loans on a house worth
about $200,000
at the bank Cox is trying to withdraw
some of his fraudulent proceeds so they
took him into a room and he talked his
way out of it he told the guy it's a I
have a second and third on my home
that's that's illegal I convinced him
that there's nothing illegal about
taking out multiple loans on the same
house when the Richland County Sheriff's
Department runs a criminal history for
Gary Sullivan they see no warrants for
his arrest the local police at this
point usually wouldn't make an immediate
arrest unless someone was wanted and of
course they ran the identity that cops
was using but that person was not wanted
Gary Sullivan was not wanted the police
in Columbia had him dead to rights
but they didn't have the paperwork and
they weren't certain who they were
dealing with and he talked his way out
of the situation and was gone in
Columbia Brigid Brown gets a need that
fucker on a podcast to give his side of
the story call from the Secret Service
she and her husband go back to their
home I've talked to a few Gary Sullivan
of course is long gone
on the kitchen countertop was a fax
machine on it was just tons of spilling
out of mortgage applications for home
equity loans these were just some
examples of the infamous loan
applications that we found in her house
that's definitely where he had forged
our names but that he had paid us off
and wanted to take the money and run in
essence
the Browns now have seven mortgages on
their home it will take them more than a
year to clear the title Thaksin hawk
take their 1.2 million and flee to
Houston but life is Bonnie and Clyde is
losing its appeal we used to fight all
the time we screaming Elliott I'm look
how dramatic these cameras are can you
appreciate this b-roll they went out of
their way to go to a motel room fuck it
all up and then shoot these insane
camera and we we didn't live in him oh I
was in Houston for less than 24 hours
she had moved there first she were into
the place and in a post apartments like
fucking way up and like the 20th floor
or something I mean had an amazing
apartment house in in not a pin house
but whatever way it was up there in in
Houston I went there right after I got
caught we get into this huge fucking
argument she gives me a hundred thousand
dollars out of like six hundred thousand
dollars she gives me like a hundred
grand I take the fucking on the gray and
I take off I go back to Charlotte to
pick up my car Charlotte North Carolina
that's where I almost get grabbed by the
fucking us at USF Marshalls Merritt owed
you this at the Starbucks yeah but yeah
so I was there for there may sound like
we hung out there so I didn't hang out
there and on top of that all this b-roll
is bullshit that's not the fuck that's
our hotel that sells it man it really
does so it makes good for good TV pretty
fucking terrible b-roll though but I
guess this was put out and fucking yeah
well they don't sophisticated like you
are no I'm not sophisticated I guess the
stylist has changed
yeah I probably do that better be so why
if she had six on our grand why would
you even accept only taking a hundred
grand
giving her a half a million dollars and
she fucking she was she had a one she
was like if you like she did want to
give me anything bro she want to give me
like 10 grand so I'm arguing and she
finally said look I'll give you $100,000
I was saying split the money she's
saying ting grant I can't believe
you can't leave even well first except
because she's saying about accepting
half here's what she's saying she's
saying that if I don't we don't we have
to you're gonna be okay with this
because if you because I was saying look
I'll take all the fucking money if you
don't split it you'll have nothing she
goes and where you gonna go with that
she was you're using a driver's license
that they already know they're looking
for this guy Gary Sullivan was all the
driver's license I only one I had
they're like you got oh I had a Michael
Eckert one too so they know Mike who
Michael Eckert is by now - they're like
you're driving and you you're driving a
Ryder truck in the name of a guy that
they're going to be looking for because
if you take all the money I'll call the
police
and they'll be looking for that Ryder
truck in his name um um how many miles
five hundred a thousand miles away from
a couple thousand miles away from
Charlotte North Carolina I've got to go
back there to get my car which is also
in the name of a guy they're looking for
but at least it's not the Ryder truck oh
you know all my fake IDs when I drove
the Ryder truck there to move my
apartment there all my stuff because we
lived in two separate houses at this
point we she had her own fucking
apartment I had my own apartment she had
moved her apartment to Houston so now
I'm picking up packing up my stuff and
moving it we put all my stuff in a
storage unit along with my IDs so I
couldn't even go and say fuck you and
grab all my ID all this all my IDs that
I had collected there in her storage
unit so I'm just fucked I've got two IDs
with me that they're looking for in a
Ryder truck so we're not we're arguing
and I'm Russia I'm saying I'll take all
the money and she's saying and what were
you gonna go in the Ryder truck they're
looking for even if you have all the
fucking money she's like I'll make one
call here's the thing if I was this
brutal angry manipulative guy I'd have
just beaten her ass or something or
choked her to death or something instead
I'm sitting there like practically
begging her you got to give me something
what do you I can't leave with 10 grand
what am I gonna but she didn't have a
powerful argument which was this she
said look I can't do what you do you'll
take the hundred thousand you'll turn it
into a couple million very quickly I'm
going to have to live
this money for the rest of my life and
she was right she wasn't she wasn't
she's not a con she's not a grifter
she's not gonna be able to survive
mm-hmm I didn't think she'd be able to
go very long at all I was amazed she
would last a year and I remember
thinking she's right I'll take the money
I'll make a bunch more money and I did
very quickly I had a few million dollars
very quickly make sense so I just
grabbed the money and left my biggest
problem is I'm driving I got no ID I
cannot get pulled over Rebecca hasn't
seen her son in more than a year that's
not true that's fucked up that's not
true why because when we went to Vegas
we saw her son really we stopped we gave
her son money we gave her fuckin parents
money we gave her ex-husband money we
give everybody money and by the way when
they catch her she didn't give him all
the money she's got a whole bunch of
money she told me that she had fucking
money she had left the money was with
the guy she's locked in banging she told
me all the fish eat old me what really
happened so I'm like damn yo she fuckin
she did pretty good anyway but yeah she
had seen her son we went there and and
she she saw her son like I like hung out
and she saw her son for like half a day
like six or seven hours then she called
me I picked her up then we bought a
bunch of fucking presents and gifts she
left him money she left the husband I
actually gave the ex-husband money I
actually met him at his job 30 grand Wow
yeah we she gave her family money she
gave her her son was actually staying
with her mother like we were just happy
to drive by her mommy the ex-husband 30
grand cuz you know if he's taking care
of the kid she's not like she's a mother
was taking care of the kid you just said
she was the kid was staying with me was
something for the weekend brother
they don't live in like know like a
couple miles he was staying some
grandmother's house for the weekend
there okay so so we happen to dweep
she's like ho let's drive by my mom's
house and we're driving by the mother's
house she's like holy Sh she's like oh
my god there's Bryce he's playing in the
front yard I was like fuck you wanted to
see him I heard you want to stop here
because we were gonna go by the
husband's house to see him to see him
because I had already dropped off money
of the husband's
so I was like I told the husband he gave
me his phone number and everything I was
gonna we're gonna set up a time I was
like fuck if you want to see Bryce you
do it right now
this guy's not getting off work for like
fucking six or eight hours we do it
right now and she's like I go it's
perfect because nobody expects it he's
there so I pull over I let her out she
walks in she calls me and says I'm good
you can go I go down the street I hang
out for like five or six hours until
eventually she calls me because we ever
like hour so eventually she calls me
says okay I'm ready I go by I pick her
up then we end up meeting the husband
again we give him a bunch of we buy a
bunch of toys and I mean you know look
it's a shitty thing but it's like the
least you can do like her son's like
look I want this I want this I want this
so we go we spend a couple grand and buy
him all these toys and all this stuff he
wants come back we drop it off with the
fucking husband with the ex-husband you
know I mean it's it's a shitty situation
but the whole I hadn't seen my hunt my
son and this let's not sure and then
there's the pressure from the Secret
Service Cox Google's himself constantly
he knows the Secret Service is working
with the media to get their faces in
front of as many people as possible
Rebecca Hogg can't stand the heat we're
on TV
they see us Secret Service was doing a
press conference about us they had done
our pictures and warrant pictures and I
just freaked out I'm like no we got to
leave we have to leave this is you know
this is we're too close they're gonna
find us we got to go she was definitely
gonna get us a call I mean that's what I
was thinking she was having a meltdown
I mean she really was nothing now she
was she was coming apart one morning in
March of 2005 Rebecca takes a shower not
through 24 hours of us there we had an
argument you to steal away he takes all
the cash but leaves behind all his cell
phones that's true any way that I could
got a hold of him he left
and I was just like what and so I've
expected okay he's gonna come back he's
just mad he's gonna come back and well
he never came back
she says you took all the money she let
keep in mind look that that is basically
see how it's that she that that slob
yeah whatever's going on there that's
basically how she good job so that was
actually a good b-roll so out to the
b-roll team as NBC so first of all she
didn't get a job for a year so if you
didn't get a job for a year how did you
live if I took all the money 500 grand
bitch yeah you had 500 so one you did
keep the money you're also sheep had
bought a brand-new car and a motorcycle
she's paid in full for a beauty school
so she's going to beauty school cuz she
realizes after a few months he ain't
coming back
so she says okay she gets beaut does the
beauty school thing so how did you do
all of that with no money no it doesn't
even makes it but see like Americans
they don't even question that
no of course not and I and the Secret
Service agent Adrienne peacock she told
me she's like no I mean we we we know
you left her with money cuz I was like I
left her with money and I have any
fucking money yeah yeah fucking she had
money and they're like no we know she
had money they're like look she had like
30 grand in the bank cars paid for
motorcycles paid for
she's got jewelry she's been paying
fucking like $2,000 I'm twenty two
hundred or something like that and rent
every month
this is fucking 15 years ago so she they
like trust me we know she's got money
yeah but anyway so yeah total fucking
bullshit weeks turn into months and
Rebecca tries to go straight
she makes up a new name Rebecca sue
Hickey and goes to work as a cocktail
waitress but someone recognises her face
we got a phone call based on our wanted
poster that this person believed that
she was using the name Rebecca Hickey
Rebecca Hawke is arrested in Houston
while attending class at a cosmetology
school there were about five u.s.
marshals that came in to class and I was
just like man and I you know I thought
they're here for me
The Secret Service hopes Rebecca can
answer their most pressing question
where is Matt cogs
she hasn't seen him or talked to him in
a year
cocks is still on the run now he's in
Nashville with a new girl and a new real
estate company single mother maybe it's
not our mind catching up with him but
the con man is about to become a victim
when American greed returns you can't
get away with that forever you're gonna
get caught
I've actually I bet that police officer
like I've seen her on the show and I've
seen quotes from her and stuff I don't
remember talking to her I think she may
have been the person that called me to
say hey can you meet us at Becca home
but in Nashville Matt Cox is living it
up while his old girlfriends get used to
prison stripes
Rebecca Hawke has been arrested by the
Secret Service and Allison Arnold is in
prison
Gail Mackenzie is the federal prosecutor
in charge of the case there was
absolutely no regard for the over
hundred victims that he left behind his
girlfriend / accomplices he knew they
had gone to jail he just moved on with
more and more fraud in Nashville Cox
forms yet another fraudulent shell
company steals the identity of another
homeless person and starts dating yet
another pretty young woman a single mom
of course fuckin dickhead she and Cox go
on a worldly motherfucka Venice and then
Greece paid for of course with stolen
money
and made possible by Cox's stash of fake
IDs you and I can't even get on a plane
without somebody looking at us anymore
Matt Cox you know at the top of the most
wanted list was able to create an ID
that passed muster for him to get out of
the country and back in maybe Cod's has
tempted fate once too often
maybe it's karma catching up with him
but one night he's back in Nashville
relaxing at home with his girlfriend
when two armed intruders break through
his front door officer Cassandra del
Bosco responds Cox shows her a video
taken from his security camera you can
actually see one lifts his foot up and
kick in the door and one of them told
him at gunpoint and then you see him
getting all their property and you see
Cox's he's kind of mad he's not really
scared he's mad it was terrifying the
thieves get away with the ural terrified
fuck yes you fucking got two of what did
you talking about when she just kicked
in my front fucking door with with
fucking guns screaming get on the
fucking ground and everything I'm like
fuck all I could think about was what
the fuck do you guys want how do I get
rid of these motherfuckers I thought
they were gonna fucking you know I
actually didn't I if she said that she
said you were mad when you were kind of
explaining it to them or showing him the
footage of what happened you're not
after the point I think it was mad
during the flab definitely I probably
looked bad yeah but I was scared okay
you know you know I'm what the fuck you
know but I just look mad I'm sure but
trust me fucking pure terror our jewelry
and six thousand dollars in cash
cocks files a police report under his
alias that's and we did run as the El it
was a valid Tennessee driver's license
with this picture on it we had no reason
to believe it wasn't him that's not good
idea around the same time the Secret
Service gets a tip from a woman in
Nashville she's seen the most wanted
poster training's Cox is living in her
neighborhood
no tipster wait Trina Trina who's Trina
Trina's the chick that Amanda and I my
girlfriend
the single mother we're seeing mmm I
remember the first pot podcast 40 yeah I
remember now
Trina Trina a while yeah yes so Trina
Amanda told Trina Trina calls and turns
me in that's her mother was that they
always say the baby's a babysitter
turned him at the babysitters mother or
Luka Trina's mother was the babysitter
she's the one that called it's just
stupid it was Trina describes cops to
achieve secret service then gets in
position to make the big arrests and
he's no longer there gone once again
this time we were within two days of him
I can't tell you what a tremendous
letdown that was the day after officer
Dale Bosco gets a page and I look down
on my computer and I noticed that the
Secret Service had just sent out an
email please stay out of the area we're
looking for a fugitive and I I looked at
the address and I thought hold up a
second we just had a home invasion there
two days ago and I talked to this
supposed to fugitive that they're
looking for working with the Secret
Service
the Nashville police create a ruse they
ask Cox to meet them for a follow-up
report about the home invasion Cox is so
confident in his ability to fool
everyone but he falls right into the
trap the Secret Service is after three
years on the run Matt Cox is finally
stopped he's taken a total of 12 million
dollars from banks and private lenders
and he's left behind more than 100
victims once in custody he begins to
talk freely to the Secret Service he was
very forthcoming and what he had done
but he was trying to sell to us just
like he had tried to sell to others that
there really are no victims and that's
what he wanted us to believe that the
you know the title insurance companies
that's what they're there for you know
insurance companies pay policy so really
no one is hurt
Bridgette Brown and her husband were
conned by Cox at a time when they were
caring for a sick child is constantly in
and out of the hospital
certainly in our case young family going
through some stressful times and he was
aware of that you know we mentioned that
getting to the closing was difficult for
us because we had to find appropriate
medical care never talked
tilda close I think it was a pretty poor
argument to say that this was a
victimless crime
never said it was a victimless crime the
10th 2007 Matthew Bevan Cox pleads
guilty to bank fraud mortgage fraud and
I do they even got the short guy with
the fuck no that's me this is beer oh no
that's from the interview with Dateline
that's the interview with Dateline
his later sentenced to 26 years and no I
gotta watch that again and identity
theft he is later sentenced to 26 years
in federal prison
this fellow got what he deserved he got
a very stiff sentence in federal prison
and because there's no parole in the
federal system anymore he's gonna spend
a couple of decades plus you're fuckin
wrong about that old I will fucking 26
fucking years for some for some fucking
money
I mean look no offense I'm not saying I
shouldn't have done some time but 26
fuckin years are you fucking crazy
that's insane that's an insane amount of
fuckin time yeah it depends on who you
ask I guess well I mean clearly to
people who might otherwise be inclined
to commit this type of crime
Rebecca Hawk is sentenced to six years
in prison but she will be eligible for
release in 2009 she got a story has one
more mystery five million dollars of his
loot is still missing
leaving the feds wondering
here's the money Maddox million where's
it buried yeah it's what do you think
there's no money bro there's no money
there's no money there's no money it you
know it hurts when you talk to me like I
have feelings possibilities are
limitless as to where he could have put
the money cocks his former girlfriends
believe he may have an offshore account
if he does it'll be a long time before
he's sipping margaritas on a beach Matt
Cox's projected release date was 2029
here we are in 2020 where's the fucking
money Matt listen Cayman Islands I've
never been in the Cayman Islands a lot
of banks over there there are you know
that when I was being interviewed by the
Secret Service they were like they were
they were saying because when we when
Amanda and I went to with Italy I had I
had like a cap fall off right and so I
needed to go to a dentist so I left I
was like look while you guys go do this
and we were in Bari and I said well you
guys go shopping I'm gonna go to a
dentist so I go to a dentist and I have
them they like glue the fucking thing
back on right mmm
so when I get picked up the Secret
Service is like listen you know I'm like
what are you talking about there's no
money there she was like you were in you
had multiple passports you were in Bari
and and Amanda told us that you left for
like four or five hours you could have
easily opened up multiple bank accounts
and put the money away in cashier's
checks or whatever and I was like that's
first of all there would be bank
accounts that were being opened by
Americans the u.s. us would be notified
that you had a bank account in another
country mm-hmm
so you know I was like it and then they
were like well you could for all we know
you've got a you've got IDs in other
people's names outside of the country so
for all we know I'm like listen listen
stop if you're smart you would have yeah
if I was smart but I'm not that smart
everybody thinks I'm so sharp I'm not
you had a good job come into me oh good
times
okay this was good this was great thank
you for doing this and thank you I'm
sure I'm speaking for millions of people
I'm sure they're all extremely
entertained by this episode they've been
looking for it for a long time yeah what
about the Dateline one oh we should do
that one next yeah but you gotta get
that you know ready you know what hey
you know listen it's twice as bad as
this one is it really it's fucking it's
not one on YouTube because they actually
interview me oh shit um let's see oh no
it's not it's not oh no it's nowhere
I've looked and looked everybody
it might listen I got an army of guys in
the comment section who have scoured the
internet they wait it was if you could
find it they'd have found it yeah but to
get this I had to get American greed I
had to because it was on Hulu initially
when I first got out then they took like
the whole season down and so I had to
contact
NBC I don't know they I to contact the
producers of whatever so you have it
what no fur for American greed I'll give
you not the Dateline episode I'm saying
I caught I had to contact them they
wanted me to give him like 1,100 1,200
dollars right then they came back I was
like no no you don't understand I'm the
guy out there like to license it to you
it's this much Plus every time I was
like license it bro I said I'm the guy
in the episode so then they come back
and they okay well we'll sell you one
for $400 or $300 like what are you
talking about
just like you well then I then I explain
then I explained that listen you've
already given me a copy before I have a
copy they had given me one of my mother
had and she's lost it and I did this
whole fucking thing that you guys gave
me one
I had a courtesy copy my mother moved
she lost the copy I just asking you to
replace it I already have it you've
already given it to me for free so then
they came back and they said okay here's
what we'll do we'll post it and you can
will Dow give you the download so they
download him gave to me that was it but
so somebody needs to do that for
Dateline
because there's there's actually two
date lines one where I'm not interviewed
they just interview Becky you can
imagine how that one comes off then
there's a second one where they
interview me still horrible where this
guy the same guy that did the same
narrator same dude same dude because
this it's called Curtis productions mmm
he did they do did both of them so yeah
man it was it was horrible too anyway
this was good thank Matt yeah
all right well wait wait wait you got we
got a plug got a plug the one more time
listen bro buy the fucking book it's a
pretty good book okay and the the
youtube channel youtube.com their and
audiobooks some of the stories I've
written and then also I have a website
inside true crime calm and patreon I got
patreon and what else now there's other
stuff is Instagram and all the other
jumps yeah yeah all the typical
platforms yeah I'm trying to figure it
out hey do you know Bubba the love
sponges yeah he's like one of most
famous radio shock jock DJ whatever
hosts in Tampa Bay talked to a guy that
like represents him today and I'm he's
supposed to try and hook it up so that I
go on bubble oh he's on um which twitch
he's on twitch I forget how many million
subscribers whatever he's got a bunch I
mean I grew up when when I grew when I
was in Tampa yeah bubble us one was huge
Oh Oh a blob sponge I was like the fuck
out he was like you know who that is I
was like of course I know who doesn't
know who I was and he's like look would
you be interested I'm like that would be
sick the awesome bros on Twitch now he
was hilarious
I love fucking list him all the time I
mean used to that would be great so
maybe that'll allow I was this deal
we'll see what do you do he uh he did he
kill a pig on the radio what do you
fucking I think I was I've been I think
they slaughtered a pig on like live
radio and that's one of the reasons a
lot of people didn't like him you got a
lot of heat for that he did a lot of
fucked up shit like he hood he was kind
of like the stern the Howard Stern of
the South right Aaron was in New York
and he was in Florida he was good he's
still good friends with Howard Stern
he's still talk to him on his show I
think yeah yeah that'd be a how strong
would be pretty cool that'd be pretty
cool to be on yeah I told you but I tell
you the Wolf's den with a bail for guard
Alfred yeah yeah I so his uh yes that's
good that you're hitting all the all the
right timing I'm trying I'm trying I
don't know yeah I haven't got a callback
I got a couple yeah a couple of emails
from his assistant but you know I
haven't heard the fly out here bro those
guys throw you that would be great
you're good content for them so we're I
picked you out of the dirt you did
you're great at this you're gonna be
right in these fucking American grass
and you're tweaking it slowly
not really I emailed you yeah and then
you you conned me yeah I remember when
you said you were like you're like I was
like hey you know I'm thinking about
doing a true-crime podcast and you go
well you know the best way to gauge
whether people would be interested in or
not is for you to come on my show and
tell your story and I was I right or was
I wrong this motherfuckers trying to get
me to fucking come on and you're like
cuz then you know that you go then then
if we were to do the you know then we'll
know and then we could talk about doing
a true-crime podcast and so I did it and
now you're like yeah I just don't know I
thought so see any interest there now
you're like where you aren't so busy
like where you are now we're too busy
for me Matt Cox
unbeliev I try to get you an episode of
my floor show and you said and you told
me that kill us I never I thought what I
said it's not what I said trying to a
day-in-the-life documentary of man
cock listen I'm painting the painting of
the Joker right now I know you told me
we should be filming that yep that's
pretty cool stuff it is pretty jokes
it's pretty cool everyone wants to see
you day in the life of Matt Cox outside
of the studio bro listen it it starts at
like 4:30 or 5:00 yeah let's do it
I get a couple of you know a couple of a
couple cups of raw sugars fucking
mainline a couple packets of raw sugars
I hit the gym you know cuz I'm 50
falling apart around five miles we could
go to my buddy my buddy's gym Trina
let's do it
Colton yeah then I compounded go to my
mom's house and I have breakfast with my
mom then he sick can we film that you
had breakfast there mom everybody's 90
that's crazy she's 90 and she picks at
me that would be so much fun to film
that then people would love it she does
she's it's always the same thing oh you
no shame anymore
American green you don't have any
collared shirts no I have a mom I just
didn't we're wondering if you don't ever
wear them all right cool well let's do
it
thanks again for doing this and that's a
wrap ladies and gentlemen all right have
a nice night everybody see you
[Music]